We have our homepage.
Right now, the homepage consists of
a hero button and a call to action.
We've got our About page set up,
it's powered by Markdown.
And we have our shop, our shop is
loading products from a third-party API.
And we have a cart, the Add to
Cart button is powered by React.
The cart itself is powered by Solid, and
we're sharing state between
those using Nano Stores.
So this is probably
a fairly dynamic setup.
You could see going further with this,
we could start looking at user accounts,
we could start looking at
storing the cart somewhere, and
rehydrating that as you come back in.
All of which is possible, but is a little
out of the scope of what we wanna do,
cuz I wanna show a little bit more.
So looking at how can we reuse
some of these Astro components, so
we're gonna look at putting a preview
of products on our homepage.
Then we're gonna look at Astro
content collections, we're going to
figure out how to run a blog in Astro,
we're gonna power it with Markdown.
Because we've already looked at how to
load from an API, so we could use any
headless CMS that we wanted, whether
that's WordPress in headless mode or
Contentful or Sanity or
any of the other ones out there.
But we're gonna use Markdown so
that we can look at how we can make
our Markdown front matter type safe.
And also how we can take advantage of some
of these built-in features of content
collections that make building
a blog powered by Markdown really
straightforward.
We're also going to set up an RSS feed,
and
then we'll start looking into
doing some dynamic stuff.
We'll get ourselves a newsletter form that
will work powered completely by Astro,
with Javascript disabled
using server rendering.
So first, why don't we go ahead and add
our sandwich kit preview on the homepage?
So we wanna add a new section below our
hero that shows a few of the products and
gives people a nudge to go check them out.
Because again,
point of the website is to try to get
people to try out these sandwich kits.
And we want them to go check out
the store, so that is our big focus here.
So the first thing that we need
to do is I want this preview to
only show three of the products.
And the way that the shop items component
is built right now is it shows all of
the products.
So I wanna add the ability
to modify the output of
the shop items component using some props.
So we're gonna do that by adding
some props to our component.
And the way that those work in Astro
is if we want some types, we set up
an interface called Props, and then we
can add whatever we want to be in here.
So I wanna include a count,
that's gonna be a number.
And the question mark makes it optional so
that we don't want to have
to send through account.
And then we want to decide whether or not
we're gonna show the Add to Cart button.
Now, because of the way that this is
built, where the cart lives on the shop
page, we're not gonna have the ability
to add to cart from the homepage.
We're only gonna have the ability
to go through to the shop page and
look at the cart there.
So we want that to basically be
toggleable, we wanna say like,
don't show the Add to Cart buttons
when we're showing the preview.
Next, we're gonna
actually use these props.
And the way that you access props
in Astro is you get a component or
a global called Astro, and
then you can grab props out of it, and
then you destructure those, and
those will map to your count here.
And because we've defined the type,
that's the wrong button.
So [LAUGH] If I start typing count,
you can see here that it has the count,
and then if I do addToCart,
I get my addToCart.
And that needs to be props, that's
probably a lot of what just went wrong.
So now I've got my count and it knows it's
a number, and it's got my addToCart and
it knows that it's Boolean or
undefined, great.
So I'm going to set a default on this one,
we'll make it true if it's not declared,
because we wanna show the addToCart.
And then the count, we're gonna set
to be infinity, because by default,
we wanna show all of the items
if we don't pass that prop.
To actually use this, we can,
before we map over the items,
we'll just run a slice.
This is a JavaScript thing, so we'll
start at the first item in the array,
the 0, and
then we just finish at the count.
So we want the first count items.
And then we're going to add
a little conditional check here,
where we say if addToCart is true,
show this addToCart component,
otherwise render null.
So with that addition, we've now
added props to an Astro component.
These will work functionally when
we actually call the component.
In the same way as any React or
Solid or Svelte component works,
you just add the name of
the prop equals and a value.
And we can now show a limited
number of our products and
we can decide whether or
not we wanna show the cart.
So to actually do this,
we will head over to our index, and
we're gonna import, Oops,
shopItems from components and shop-items.
And then down here, underneath this
section, we're gonna add a new one.
And this section is going
to have a class of,
we're gonna use that block again and
we'll give it a name of products.
And inside,
we're going to add in our shop items,
we want three of them, and we don't
wanna show the Add to Cart button.
And then, so
that people can get over to the shop,
we're going to add
a class of shop link and
display a link, and
that is gonna head over to the shop.
And we'll say Shop All Sandwich,
if I can spell it, Sandwich Kits.
And then we're gonna use an HTML
entity to show an arrow.
And I picked this up a long
time ago before emoji
were really well supported and
I still use it all the time.
These HTML entities are great.
There's a lot of flexibility and
it doesn't require any dependencies or
any other stuff.
So save that, head out here,
and look at it go,
we've got products
displayed on the homepage,
takes you through to the sandwich kits.
What a time to be alive, how great is
that that we can do that that quickly?
And this is really like, again, what I
love about this framework is that it just
lets you build stuff, I'm not
having to go add configure options.
I'm not having to go check the docs,
I just, hey, I need some props,
great, I've got some props,
now I can go do some stuff.
It just uses the knowledge I already
have from working with other frameworks.
Now, if I need the docs, the docs
are great and they will fill any gap.
So if you haven't worked with
a component-based framework before,
some of that knowledge might not be there,
you might not be able to call on it
from having worked with React or Solid.
But it's still, grab the documentation,
it's gonna walk you right through it and
you're building features instead
of wrestling with your tools.
And I really, really do treasure that when
I find a tool that makes that possible.